# TL_20220524

## Package Version

`user`
```json
"dependencies": {
    "@react-navigation/drawer": "^6.4.1",
    "@react-navigation/material-top-tabs": "^6.2.1",
    "@react-navigation/native": "^6.0.10",
    "@react-navigation/native-stack": "^6.6.2",
    "@react-navigation/stack": "^6.2.1",
    "@reduxjs/toolkit": "^1.8.2",
    "@types/redux": "^3.6.0",
    "patch-package": "^6.4.7",
    "react": "17.0.2",
    "react-native": "0.68.2",
    "react-native-gesture-handler": "^2.4.1",
    "react-native-pager-view": "^5.4.15",
    "react-native-paper": "^4.12.1",
    "react-native-reanimated": "^2.8.0",
    "react-native-safe-area-context": "^4.2.5",
    "react-native-screens": "^3.13.1",
    "react-native-tab-view": "^3.1.1",
    "react-native-vector-icons": "^9.1.0",
    "react-redux": "^8.0.2"
  },
  "devDependencies": {
    "@babel/runtime": "^7.12.5",
    "@react-native-community/eslint-config": "^2.0.0",
    "@testing-library/jest-native": "^4.0.4",
    "@testing-library/react-native": "^9.1.0",
    "@types/jest": "^27.5.1",
    "@types/react-native": "^0.67.7",
    "@types/react-test-renderer": "^18.0.0",
    "@types/redux-mock-store": "^1.0.3",
    "babel-jest": "^28.0.3",
    "eslint": "^7.32.0",
    "jest": "^27.0.0",
    "metro-react-native-babel-preset": "^0.67.0",
    "react-test-renderer": "17.0.2",
    "redux-mock-store": "^1.5.4",
    "ts-jest": "^28.0.2",
    "typescript": "^4.6.4"
  },
  "resolutions": {
    "@types/react": "^17"
  }
```

## Test React Navigation

RNTL jest react-navigation

in testing screen, we can only test:
- what's on the screen
- what get's out of the screen (function called, etc)

as of navigating to another screen, it is testing the navigator. Ergo while testing screen, `NavigationContainer` is not needed in wrapping screen component.


## Redux Testing Principles

- **Use integration tests for everything working together**. I.e. for a React app using Redux, **render a <Provider> with a real store instance wrapping the component/s being tested**. Interactions with the page being tested should use real Redux logic, with API calls mocked out so app code doesn't have to change, and assert that the UI is updated appropriately.
- If needed, use basic unit tests for pure functions such as particularly complex reducers or selectors. However, in many cases, these are just implementation details that are covered by integration tests instead.

- The return value of action creators is considered an implementation detail within your application, and when following an integration testing style, do not need explicit tests.
- We consider thunk behavior to be an implementation detail of the application, and recommend that it be covered by testing the group of components (or whole app) using it, rather than testing the thunk in isolation.

**official opinion, might not be the best practice**

[best ref so far: Intro to Confidently Testing Redux Applications with Jest & TypeScript](https://egghead.io/lessons/jest-intro-to-confidently-testing-redux-applications-with-jest-typescript)

[ref: How to test React-Redux connected Components](https://www.robinwieruch.de/react-connected-component-test/)
Let's say we have a connected React component that receives state from the Redux store. We call this state -- coming in as props to our component -- myState. Our component has also a button element which dispatches an action to our Redux store. We call this action myAction(payload) whereas `payload can be any parameters passed to that action. In conclusion, our React component is connected both ways to the Redux store: it receives state (e.g. via mapStateToProps) and dispatches an action (e.g. via mapDispatchToProps).

mock store
```shell
npm i --save-dev redux-mock-store @types/redux-mock-store
```

when testing thunk, the thunk function can't have `setTimeout`, otherwise it will linger at `pending` instead of going to `fulfilled`. The problem is resolved: [createAsyncThunk not dispatching "fulfilled" in test](https://stackoverflow.com/a/67381392/18748524)
Because createAsyncThunk always works asynchronously, while your test is synchronous. The fulfilled action will be dispatched a tick or two later, but at that point your test has already ended.

when testing with real `store`, we can only test `state` not `action` called. It is testing thunk and reducer at the same time. IT makes test using mock store and mock dispatch obsolete (?).

act warning handling
[ref](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/fix-the-not-wrapped-in-act-warning)

Don't go too deep across layers. Test what testee is suppose to be responsible for.

## react-redux Testing Principles

If any `react-redux` hook is used in component, its testing must be wrapped in a `Provider` with `store`, either real store or mocked store.

## Jest

1. Expect

If it should pass with deep equality, replace "toBe" with "toEqual" or "toStrictEqual";